---
layout: post
title: My Biggest Challenge While Learning How To Develop
---
There are so many challenges that I faced (am facing) while learning to develop that I don't think that I can name all of them. By far the biggest challenge has to be learning the various programming languages, libraries, and frameworks. As mentioned in an earlier blog post, I had never done anything like this before I started Bloc. Everything in the curriculum was/is basically new to me. It gets very difficult switching from one language to the next, especially when it comes to remembering the syntax for each language. One moment I feel like I'm just about to get the hang of a certain language, and them my world basically gets turned upside down when I start reading the next checkpoint.

One personal challenge that I had to face, especially in phase 1 when I first started the program, is that I am responsible for my own learning. I need to make sure that I am taking the time to do my best, rather than burning through the checkpoints and assignments because I want to meet the recommended checkpoints for each week. Like math, things build upon each other when it comes to coding, so if I don't understand one thing, chances are I'm going to find the next lesson very difficult to grasp. One thing that I really need to change about myself is the realization that I get out what I put in. My education depends on me.

Back to the languages. I didn't really run into as many syntax issues in phase 1 as I have in phase 2. It's crazy how a missing semi-colon or a missing parentheses can ruin your whole code. When writing the code for Bloc Jams, I spent a lot of time reading over my code just to look for syntax errors. On top of all of this, sometimes I get so overwhelmed with what my code needs to accomplish that I can barely start coding. This is where pseudo-code comes into play, which is something that I am still working on. Coding requires a lot of algorithmic thinking, something that I am not naturally good at, so it is really helpful for me to write what I want my code to accomplish in plain english and replace my notes with the appropriate code. This clears my thinking process by labeling step-by-step what needs to get done. I am basically breaking down each bloc of code into smaller objectives to create on big, functioning bloc of code.

Coding is still very new to me, but with patience and practice I hope to become the developer that I want to be.
