---
layout: post
title: My Goal As A Frontend Developer
---
My goals as a frontend web developer is to create practical, elegant, educational, and convenient websites and applications that will evolve everyday aspects of life into simple, user-friendly functions. It's crazy to think that not too long ago, the internet didn't even exist. Smartphones, Netflix, Facebook, Twitter, and every other everyday app or device that we depend on so much was completely incapable of existence just about 30 years ago. [What would we do without the internet?](http://stylecaster.com/what-if-the-internet-did-not-exist/) It's even more crazy to look back and see how far technology has taken us over these last years. I want to be apart of the movement that has rapidly taken us from ordering plane tickets over a landline phone to reserving our seats by the click of a button on our laptop. I want to develop the way we do business; the way we keep in touch with friends and family; the way we entertain ourselves; the way the live life, and the way to do this is to develop the technology that we so heavily rely on.

One website that has helped me tremendously in everyday life is [Youtube](http://www.youtube.com). Besides entertainment and keeping up with current events, youtube has been an outstanding source for tutorials. I have fixed my vehicles so many times with this amazing gem of a website, and it has literally saved me hundreds of dollars. To think that a website that simply lets you post a video to the internet can change lives, save you money, or even make you money, is pretty amazing. What's even more amazing is how easy it is to use such a resource. There are not to many people out there who don't know how to use a computer, but there are also a lot of people out there who are not computer science geniuses (like myself). Taking this into consideration, it really shows how important frontend web development is when it comes to user interaction. In the end, what makes a website or an application successful is: 1) if it actually works or not and 2) if it's easy to use. This is perhaps my biggest goal as a frontend web developer. I want people from all walks of life to be capable of using the same technology.

Frontend web development links modern day technology to the modern man, and it is my goal to make that link flow as easily, and elegantly, as possible.
