---
layout: post
title: My Experience With Bloc
---
I've been enrolled in the Bloc curriculum for about 7 weeks now, and I'd like to blog about my experience thus far. Before starting Bloc, I was a member of the local 10 sheetmetal union located in St. Cloud, MN. I was looking for a job that didn't require me to spend so much time away from home and my family, so naturally I started googling (if that's a word) ["best work from home jobs"](https://www.google.com/#q=best+work+from+home+jobs) and the position of being a web developer keep popping up repeatedly. I then stumbled upon an article about coding bootcamps, and how they were starting to become the new standard for web and software development. I looked up bootcamps and stumbled across Prime Digital Academy in Bloomington, MN, and attended one of their open houses. I quickly became very interested and filled out an application immediately. I was a little intimidated about the course. They typically put in about 60 hours a week, and moved at a very fast pace. On top of this, we live 2 hours away from the school, meaning that we would need to move closer if I wanted to attend the program. After much consideration, I decided not to attend Prime, and I began researching other options. When I found Bloc's website, it seemed like everything that I was looking for. I didn't need to move, I could participate in the program right from home, I would get 1 on 1 mentor meetings twice a week, and I would be able to move at a slightly slower pace, which has enabled me to spend more time on topics that I struggle with. Overall, I think I made the right choice switching to Bloc.

Mentor meetings are a nice part of the program. I struggle a lot with coding because I have never done it before, so having someone to talk to about the difficulties that I am running into is definitely a huge plus. It's encouraging to have someone that is willing to set aside time so that they can answer all of your questions.

I feel like the biggest downfall of Bloc would be the time it takes to get a question answered when you don't have a mentor meeting that very same day. If your moving at a good pace, and all of a sudden you get stuck and need to message your mentor for help, it could take up to an entire day until your question is answered. Slack can be helpful when asking questions, but sometimes questions don't always get answered. The biggest benefit of using slack is talking to other people who are struggling with the same things you are, or talking to people who have overcome the current things you are struggling with.

So far, Bloc has been a good program for me. I love that the pace is not too fast, yet it still pushes me enough so I don't get to slack off too much. My favorite part of the program is the mastery learning. I love the fact that I don't move on until I understand.
